.TH ENRICHER 1 "April 2026" "StackScreener" "StackScreener Manual"
.SH NAME
enricher \- background data enrichment worker for StackScreener
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python src/enricher.py
[\fB\-\-rate\fR \fIS\fR]
[\fB\-\-workers\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-limit\fR \fIN\fR]
[\fB\-\-ipo\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-history\-only\fR]
[\fB\-\-history\-period\fR \fIPERIOD\fR]
[\fB\-\-include\-delisted\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B enricher
is a rate-limited background worker that pulls financial data from Yahoo Finance
(via yfinance) and writes it to the StackScreener SQLite database.
.PP
It performs two independent jobs:
.TP
.B Fundamentals enrichment
Fetches price, valuation ratios, margins, ownership, and other per-stock
fundamentals for every stock in the database whose data is missing or older
than \fBSTALENESS_DAYS\fR (default: 1 day). Progress is committed after each
stock, so the process is safe to kill and restart at any time.
.TP
.B Price history
Fetches daily OHLCV bars, dividends, and split factors for every listed stock
(price > 0) whose history is missing or has not been updated within
\fBHISTORY_STALENESS_DAYS\fR (default: 3 days, to account for weekends and
market holidays).
.PP
On every startup,
.B enricher
also runs a daily IPO calendar check (Yahoo Finance Calendar API) to pre-seed
upcoming listings into the database before they appear in the NYSE/NASDAQ
screener. This check runs at most once per calendar day regardless of how many
times the worker is invoked.
.PP
Delisted stocks (those with \fBdelisted = 1\fR in the database) are skipped by
default in all operations. Use \fB\-\-include\-delisted\fR to override.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-rate " S"
Seconds to sleep between API requests. Applies per worker thread.
Lower values increase throughput but raise the risk of Yahoo Finance
rate-limiting. Default: \fB0.5\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-workers " N"
Number of parallel worker threads. Each thread pulls jobs from a shared queue
and respects the \fB\-\-rate\fR sleep independently. Start with 1; increase
cautiously — Yahoo Finance will throttle aggressive clients. Default: \fB1\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-limit " N"
Process at most \fIN\fR stocks then exit. Useful for smoke-testing or
incremental refreshes. Stocks are processed in staleness order (oldest first).
.TP
.B \-\-ipo\-only
Run only the daily IPO calendar check, then exit immediately. The
fundamentals enrichment and price history steps are skipped entirely.
.TP
.B \-\-history\-only
Fetch price history only; skip fundamentals enrichment. The IPO calendar
check still runs at startup.
.TP
.BI \-\-history\-period " PERIOD"
yfinance period string controlling how far back history is fetched.
Only meaningful when fetching history. Default: \fB5y\fR.
.PP
.RS
Valid values:
.RS
.TS
l l.
1d	Last trading day
5d	Last 5 trading days
1mo	Last 1 month
3mo	Last 3 months
6mo	Last 6 months
1y	Last 1 year
2y	Last 2 years
5y	Last 5 years (default)
10y	Last 10 years
ytd	Year to date
max	Full available history
.TE
.RE
.RE
.TP
.B \-\-include\-delisted
Include stocks marked \fBdelisted = 1\fR in the database. By default all
enrichment and history fetches skip delisted stocks. This flag re-enables
them for the current run only — it does not change the database flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run full fundamentals enrichment until all stocks are up to date:
.B python src/enricher.py
.TP
Run at a faster rate with 2 parallel workers:
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-rate 0.3 \-\-workers 2
.TP
Enrich only the 50 stalest stocks then stop:
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-limit 50
.TP
Fetch 5-year price history for all active stocks:
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-history\-only
.TP
Backfill the last year of price history only:
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-history\-only \-\-history\-period 1y
.TP
Run only the IPO calendar check (e.g. from a daily cron job):
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-ipo\-only
.TP
Smoke-test enrichment against 10 stocks:
.B python src/enricher.py \-\-limit 10
.SH DATABASE
All output is written to \fBstackscreener.db\fR via \fBdb.py\fR. Relevant tables:
.TP
.B stocks
Fundamentals, price, ownership, and valuation fields. The \fBlast_enriched_at\fR
column tracks when each stock was last updated. \fBdelisted = 1\fR marks stocks
that no longer trade.
.TP
.B price_history
Daily OHLCV rows keyed on \fB(stock_uid, date)\fR. Safe to re-fetch — rows are
upserted on conflict. The \fBdividend\fR column is 0.0 on non-dividend dates;
\fBsplit_factor\fR is 1.0 when no split occurred.
.TP
.B calendar_events
Upcoming IPO records written by the daily IPO calendar check. Pre-seeded
stocks (ticker known before listing) are also inserted into \fBstocks\fR with
\fBprice = 0.0\fR.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Tunable constants live in \fBsrc/screener_config.py\fR:
.TP
.B STALENESS_DAYS
How many days before fundamentals are considered stale. Default: 1.
.TP
.B HISTORY_STALENESS_DAYS
How many days before price history is considered stale. Default: 3.
.TP
.B IPO_LOOKAHEAD_DAYS
How many calendar days ahead to fetch IPO events. Default: 90.
.TP
.B DEBUG_MODE
Set to \fBTrue\fR to enable verbose per-ticker logging. Default: False.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Completed successfully (including partial runs with \fB\-\-limit\fR).
.TP
.B non-zero
Unhandled exception during startup (e.g. missing database, import error).
Per-ticker failures are logged inline and do not affect exit status.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B stackscreener.db
SQLite database. Created by \fBpython src/seeder.py\fR before enricher is run.
.TP
.B src/enricher.py
Main worker script.
.TP
.B src/db.py
All database access. Never call this directly — use enricher as the entry point.
.TP
.B src/screener_config.py
All tunable constants.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B seeder(1),
.B screener_run(1)
.SH NOTES
The database must be initialised with \fBpython src/seeder.py\fR before
running the enricher. Running enricher on an empty database is safe but will
produce no output.
.PP
Yahoo Finance rate-limits aggressive clients. If you see a high failure rate,
increase \fB\-\-rate\fR or reduce \fB\-\-workers\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Tony (antv311). Part of the StackScreener project.
.br
https://github.com/antv311/StackScreener
